[OUDS] feat(docs): Add the bi-mode page (#3216)
Orange-OpenSource/Orange-Boosted-Bootstrap: site/src/content/docs/bi-mode.mdx

---
title: Bi mode explanation
description: This is a tutorial for the bi-mode using Boosted and OUDS Web.
aliases: "/bi-mode/"
toc: true
---

## Preamble

> This page is for people that want to try the bi-mode combining Boosted and OUDS Web. It’s also a tutorial to implement OUDS Web gradually inside your website. Be careful, we don’t support it too much and this feature is supposed to be used only by the selected projects. If you’re not, please contact us so we can maybe help you.

Reviewer: just a suggestion

```suggestion
This page is for people that want to try the bi-mode combining Boosted and OUDS Web. It also works as a tutorial to implement OUDS Web gradually inside your website. Be careful, we don’t support it too much and this feature is supposed to be used only by the selected projects. If you’re not, please contact us so we can maybe help you.
```

> This page is for people that want to try the bi-mode combining Boosted and OUDS Web. It’s also a tutorial to implement OUDS Web gradually inside your website. Be careful, we don’t support it too much and this feature is supposed to be used only by the selected projects. If you’re not, please contact us so we can maybe help you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bi-mode is a way to early and gradually migrate a Boosted project to OUDS.

This page is for people that want to try the bi-mode combining Boosted and OUDS Web. It also works as a tutorial to implement OUDS Web gradually inside your website. Be careful, we will support this in a "best-effort" way; this feature is supposed to be used only by pre-selected projects. If you would like assistance, please contact us.
```

This page is not to be used alone, but is complementary to [OUDS Web documenation](https://web.unified-design-system.orange.com/) and [Boosted documentation](https://boosted.orange.com/).

## Example of integration

> If you want to see the kind of changes and the amount of changes it might require on your side by watching it in action in the [ODS Charts project](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ods-charts/pull/673/files). Be aware that this project remains very simple due to the used technology, and that only few pages were done in this example just to test different configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check this [ODS Charts project](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ods-charts/pull/673/files) update to see what it would entail on your side in terms of changes. Be aware that this project remains very simple due to the used technology, and that only few pages were done in this example just to test different configurations.
```

> If you want to see the kind of changes and the amount of changes it might require on your side by watching it in action in the [ODS Charts project](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ods-charts/pull/673/files). Be aware that this project remains very simple due to the used technology, and that only few pages were done in this example just to test different configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can check the [example of bi-mode on ODS Charts project](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ods-charts/pull/673/files) to see what kind of changes, and how much work it would be required on your side. Be aware that the ODS Charts project remains very simple due to the used technology, and that only few pages were done in this example just to test different configurations.
```

> ## Cons

Reviewer 2: Is the idea to start with the disadvantages to discourage the projects?

Here is a non exhaustive list of disadvantages of using this bi-mode:
- There might be some unwanted side and edge effects that we didn’t anticipate.
- It implies a change of design, so be in touch with your designer(s).
- It implies a mix of two brands that doesn’t coexist well.
- It implies a big load of work to start the journey and a moderate one to keep up to date.
- You will need to adapt to the new naming.
- Since the library isn’t released, it won’t be as stable a Boosted for example.

## Pros

Here is a non exhaustive list of advantages of using this bi-mode:
- You have more power to feedback and influence the library.

> - You have more support and a better connection with the core team of the library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You have more support and a better connection with the core team of the library.
- You have power to feedback and influence the library.
```

          // Boosted
          @import "boosted/scss/back-to-top";
          @import "boosted/scss/footer";
          @import "boosted/scss/local-navigation";
          @import "boosted/scss/orange-navbar";
          @import "boosted/scss/stepped-process";
          @import "boosted/scss/sticker";
          @import "boosted/scss/title-bars";

          // No need to import Helpers or Utilities, and use the OUDS Web ones
        }

        // 3. Import your custom Boosted components
        @import "backport/custom/boosted/components.scss";

        // 4. Import custom components from your project
        @import "your/custom/(s)css/files.scss";`} />
    </details>

3. Once your all set, you can begin to follow [our migration guide from Boosted]([[docsref:/migrations/migration-from-boosted]]).

4. Sometimes, we provide only a partial support of what was done before. Since the goal of OUDS is to support all the previous components or at least give an alternative. For example, the [Boosted social buttons](https://boosted.orange.com/docs/5.3/components/buttons/#social-buttons) aren’t yet developed, so you need to copy paste the code if you use it in your code.

> 5. Add a `.boosted` near to the root (`<body>` for example), set the `[data-bs-theme]` (probably to `root`), and voilà, you should be having the best of two worlds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Add a class `.boosted` near to the root (on `<body>` for example), set the `[data-bs-theme]` (probably on `root`), and voilà, you should be having the best of two worlds.
```
